DOCS-9646 add files to be edited. (#342)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/edits/install-self-managed.adoc

= Install Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes

> [IMPORTANT]
> ====
> Installing Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes requires tasks that must be performed by both IT administrators and MuleSoft organization administrators.
> ====
> 
> Anypoint Runtime Fabric can be installed and operated on a AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) or Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) that you manage.

Reviewer: ditto re. notice formats at the beginning of topic sets:
```suggestion
You can install and operate Anypoint Runtime Fabric on either your AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) or your Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). Some installation tasks are performed by IT administrators, and some by MuleSoft organization administrators.
```
Follow with a narrative, or a table, or a list of the items that you are now labeling as "Step x," but don't call them steps. Simply identify the task and, optionally, who must perform it (who must perform it will be in the intro text to each task). 

Follow with Prerequisites and a subtopic for each task:

= Install Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes
Intro mentioning that there are prereqs and seven subtasks (who performs them optional, as each subtask text will specify).
== Prerequisites
      * Read and understand...
      * Installed and configured...
== Configure Your Network to Support Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes
Intro to three parts
=== Port...
=== Hostname...
=== Certificate...
== Create a Runtime Fabric by Using Runtime Manager
Requires MS org admin. Obtain activation data.
== Download the rtfctl Utility
Requires IT admin.
.
.
.

Reviewer: Copyediting existing follows

> == Before you Begin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Prerequisites
```

Before installing Anypoint Runtime Fabric in a self-managed Kubernetes environment, ensure the following:

* You have read and understand the architecture and requirements outlined in xref:index-self-managed.adoc[Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes]

> * You have installed and configured your Kubernetes environment as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have installed and configured your Kubernetes environment so that is running the following:
```

> +
> - Running an EKS or AKS Kubernetes environment. Other Kubernetes environments are not supported.
> - Running Kubernetes version 1.16.x to 1.18.x.
> - Running an ingress controller to send external requests to applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** EKS or AKS (other Kubernetes environments are not supported)
** Kubernetes 1.16.x through 1.18.x
** An Ingress controller, to send external requests to applications
```

> == Step 1: Configure your Network to Support Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure Your Network to Support Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes
```

Reviewer: Note that this sounds like it is actually a PREREQ subtext than a step....

> [IMPORTANT]
> ====
> Network configuration must be performed by an IT administrator.
> ====
> 
> Before installing or using Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes, ensure that the following ports and hostnames are configured correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before installing Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes, an IT administrator must correctly configure ports, hostnames, and certificates.
```
Yeah...this should be moved into PREREQ....

=== Port Configuration

> To install or run Runtime Fabric, ensure that you have configured the following ports on your Kubernetes installation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before installing Runtime Fabric, ensure that your IT administrator has configured the following ports on your Kubernetes installation:
```

[%header,cols="6*a"]
.Port Configuration for Self-Managed Kubernetes
|===
| Port | Layer 4 Protocol | Layer 5 Protocol | Source | Destination | Description

> | 443 | TCP | HTTPS | Internet | All nodes | Allow inbound requests to Mule runtime servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 443 | TCP | HTTPS | Internet | All nodes | Allow inbound requests to Mule servers
```

Reviewer: Please verify the proper presentation of all of the following product or feature names.

| 443 | TCP | AMQP over WebSockets | All nodes | Internet | Anypoint Platform management services

> | 443 | TCP | HTTPS | All nodes | Internet | API Manager policy updates, API Analytics Ingestion, and Resource retrieval (application files, container images).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 443 | TCP | HTTPS | All nodes | Internet | API Manager policy updates, API Analytics Ingestion, and resource retrieval (application files and container images)
```

> | 5044 | TCP | Lumberjack | All nodes | Internet | Anypoint Monitoring, Anypoint Visualizer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 5044 | TCP | Lumberjack | All nodes | Internet | Anypoint Monitoring and Anypoint Visualizer
```

|===

=== Hostname Configuration

> To function correctly, Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes requires the following hostname configurations:

Reviewer: I suggest making the opening sentences to each of these three subtopics parallel: either "Before...your IT admin must" or "To function correctly...requires these configurations."

Reviewer: GLOBALLY verify product name presentations.

[%header,cols="4*a"]
.Host Configuration for Self-Managed Kubernetes
|===
| Port | Protocol | Hostnames | Description

> | 443 | AMQP over WebSockets | * US control plane: transport-layer.prod.cloudhub.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 443 | AMQP over WebSockets | * US control plane: `transport-layer.prod.cloudhub.io`
```

> * EU control plane: transport-layer.prod-eu.msap.io | Runtime Fabric message broker for interaction with the control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* EU control plane: `transport-layer.prod-eu.msap.io` | Runtime Fabric message broker for interaction with the control plane
```

Reviewer: GLOBALLY format the syntax and URLs in this table per our SR, and remove periods from fragment descriptions. I'll not mark these in the rest of the table except with there is another edit correction.

| 5044 |TCP (Lumberjack) | * US control plane: dias-ingestor-nginx.prod.cloudhub.io
* EU control plane: dias-ingestor-nginx.prod-eu.msap.io | Anypoint Monitoring agent for Runtime Fabric.
| 443 | HTTPS | anypoint.mulesoft.com | Anypoint Platform for pulling assets.
| 443 | HTTPS | kubernetes-charts.storage.googleapis.com | Kubernetes base charts repository.
| 443 | HTTPS | docker-images-prod.s3.amazonaws.com | Kubernetes base charts repository.
| 443 | HTTPS | * US control plane: worker-cloud-helm-prod.s3.amazonaws.com

> * EU control plane: worker-cloud-helm-prod-eu-rt.s3.amazonaws.com worker-cloud-helm-prod-eu-rt.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com | Runtime Fabric version repository. The Runtime Fabric installation uses software from this repository during installation and upgrades.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* EU control plane: `worker-cloud-helm-prod-eu-rt.s3.amazonaws.com` and `worker-cloud-helm-prod-eu-rt.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com` | Runtime Fabric version repository
+
The Runtime Fabric installation uses software from this repository during installation and upgrades.
```

| 443 | HTTPS | * US control plane: exchange2-asset-manager-kprod.s3.amazonaws.com

> * EU control plane: exchange2-asset-manager-kprod-eu.s3.amazonaws.com exchange2-asset-manager-kprod-eu.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com |Anypoint Exchange for application assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* EU control plane: `exchange2-asset-manager-kprod-eu.s3.amazonaws.com` and `exchange2-asset-manager-kprod-eu.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com` |Anypoint Exchange for application assets
```

| 443 | HTTPS | * US control plane: rtf-runtime-registry.kprod.msap.io
* EU control plane: rtf-runtime-registry.kprod-eu.msap.io | Runtime Fabric Docker repository.

> | 443 | HTTPS | * US control plane: prod-us-east-1-starport-layer-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com prod-us-east-1-starport-layer-bucket.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com

Reviewer: ditto re. "and" separating addresses; GLOBAL. I will stop marking.

* EU control plane: prod-eu-central-1-starport-layer-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com prod-eu-central-1-starport-layer-bucket.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com | Runtime Fabric Docker image delivery.
| 443 | HTTPS | * US control plane: runtime-fabric.s3.amazonaws.com
* EU control plane: runtime-fabric-eu.s3.amazonaws.com | Runtime Fabric Docker repository.
| 443 | HTTPS | * US control plane: configuration-resolver.prod.cloudhub.io
* EU control plane: configuration-resolver.prod-eu.msap.io | Anypoint Configuration Resolver.
|===

=== Certificate Configuration

> To allow different endpoints to use mutual TLS authentication to establish a connection, you must configure SSL passthrough to allow the following certificates:

Reviewer: ditto re. intro parallelism, if possible.
ditto identify the actor

[%header,cols="2*a"]
.Cerfificate configuration for Self-Managed Kubernetes

> |===

Reviewer: format syntax

| Control Plane | Certificates
| US control plane | transport-layer.prod.cloudhub.io +
configuration-resolver.prod.cloudhub.io
| EU control plane | transport-layer.prod-eu.msap.io +
configuration-resolver.prod-eu.msap.io
|===

> == Step 2: Create a Runtime Fabric using Runtime Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create a Runtime Fabric by Using Runtime Manager
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
The procedures in this section should be performed by a MuleSoft organization administrator.
====

> To install Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes, first create a Runtime Fabric using Runtime Manager. This is required to obtain the activation data which is needed during installation.

Reviewer: ditto previous...and is this, too, a prerequisite to our container topic, which is INSTALLING?
Looks like we need a longer prereq section in this topic OR a separate Level-1 topic Prerequisites to Installing.... or Requirements for Installing....

> . From Anypoint Platform, select Runtime Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.
```

. Click *Runtime Fabrics*.
. Click *Create Runtime Fabric*.

> . Enter the name of the new Runtime Fabric, then select one of the following options:

Reviewer: ditto prev. edit re. ", then"

+
* Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service
* Azure Kubernetes Service

. Click *Next*.

> . Review the *Support responsibility* disclaimer, then if you agree click *Accept*.

Reviewer: ditto ", then"
GLOBALLY search for and correct this; I will stop marking it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Review the *Support responsibility* disclaimer and, if you agree, click *Accept*.
```

Reviewer: Not sure we need "if you agree." We should assume they do, I think.

+

> Runtime Manager creates the Runtime Fabric and displays the Activation State page. This page displays the activation data used to install Runtime Fabric on a Kubernetes service. Copy this data to the clipboard for use in the next section.

Reviewer: All UI labels referred to in context of the audience looking at the UI should be formatted in bold:
```suggestion
Runtime Manager creates the Runtime Fabric and displays the *Activation State* page. This page displays the activation data used to install Runtime Fabric on a Kubernetes service. Copy this data to the clipboard for future use.
```
Do not create intertopic dependencies by referring to "next" or "previous" topics, sections, or other doc units.

Reviewer: RESUME

== Step 3: Download the rtfctl Utility

[IMPORTANT]
====
The tasks in the section must be performed by an IT administrator.

> ====

Reviewer: ditto prev. edits to peer topics

> Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes uses the `rtfctl` command-line utility for installation and management tasks. See xref:install-rtfctl.adoc[Install the Runtime Fabric Command Line Tool].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes uses the `rtfctl` command-line utility for installation and management tasks. See xref:install-rtfctl.adoc[Install the Runtime Fabric Command-Line Tool].
```

Reviewer: Nice transition sentence!

. Download the `rtfctl` command-line utility:
+

> `rtfctl` is supported on Windows, MacOS (Darwin), and Linux. Download this utility using the URLs below:

Reviewer: GLOBALLY avoid using above, below, left, right, and other directional terms that might not be accurate or clear given the documentation display medium.
```suggestion
`rtfctl` is supported on Windows, MacOS (Darwin), and Linux. Download this utility using the following syntax:
```
...because the examples are more than just URLs....

+

> *Windows:*

Reviewer: Ditto prev. comment about using plain bullet-lists rather than boldface narrative subheads:
```suggestion
* Windows
```

+
----
curl -L https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/download/rtfctl-windows/latest -o rtfctl.exe
----
+

> *MacOS (Darwin):*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MacOS (Darwin)
```

+
----
curl -L https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/download/rtfctl-darwin/latest -o rtfctl
----
+

> *Linux:*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Linux
```

+
----
curl -L https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/download/rtfctl/latest -o rtfctl
----

. Change file permissions for the `rtfctl` command-line utility:
+
----
sudo chmod +x rtfctl
----

> == Step 4: Install Runtime Fabric

Reviewer: Note that THIS SUBTOPIC is the actual task implied by the topic-set title.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The procedures in the section must be performed by an IT administrator.

> ====

Reviewer: ditto prev. suggestions

> After creating a Runtime Fabric in Runtime Manager and obtaining the activation data, install Runtime Fabric into your Kubernetes service using the `rtfctl` command-line utility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating a Runtime Fabric instance in Runtime Manager and obtaining the activation data, install Runtime Fabric to your Kubernetes service using the `rtfctl` command-line utility.
```

If your Kubernetes configuration is not located in the `\~/.kube/config` directory, set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable before running `rtfctl`:
----
export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-kubeconfig>
----

> . Validate that your Kubernetes environment is read for installation:

Reviewer: "Ensure"?
Even though the syntax uses the word "validate," to me, validation is something that you do AFTER your change is made, not before it to enable it....

+
----
rtfctl validate <activation_data>
----
+
The `validate` option verifies that:
+
* The Kubernetes environment is running.
* All required components exist.
* All required services are available.
+
The `rtfctl` command-line utility outputs any incompatibilities with the Kubernetes environment.

. Install Runtime Fabric:
+
----
rtfctl install <activation_data>
----
+
`<activation_data>` is the activation data obtained after creating the Runtime Fabric using Runtime Manager. During installation, the `rtfctl` utility displays any errors encountered.

== Step 5: Insert the Mule License Key

[IMPORTANT]
====
The procedures in the section must be performed by an IT administrator.
====

> 

Reviewer: ditto

After the installation has completed succesfully, insert the Mule license key.

> . Base64 encode the new Mule `.lic` license file provided by MuleSoft:

Reviewer: "Base64 encode" is not a verb; reword to something like "Using..., encode the new...according to environment in which it is running:"

+
* On MacOS, run the following command:
+
----
base64 -b0 license.lic
----
+
* On Unix, run the following command:
+
----
base64 -w0 license.lic
----
+

> * On Windows, a shell terminal emulator (such as cygwin) or access to a Unix-based computer is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On Windows, use a shell terminal emulator (such as cygwin) or access a Unix-based computer:
```

+
.. Transfer to your Unix environment if necessary.

> .. Run the following command to Base64 encode the license key:

Reviewer: ditto re. verb

+
----
base64 -w0 license.lic
----

. Insert the Mule license key:
+
----
rtfctl apply mule-license BASE64_ENCODED_LICENSE
----

> . To verify the Mule license key has applied correctly, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the Mule license key is applied correctly:
```

+
----
rtfctl get mule-license
----

> == Step 6: Configure the Ingress Resource Template

Reviewer: Perhaps this title should be specific to the optional need:
```suggestion
== Configure the Ingress Resource Template for a Custom Installation
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
The procedures in this section should be performed by an IT administrator.
====

> 

Reviewer: ditto

If your ingress controller requires custom annotations and ingress class definition, follow the instructions in xref:custom-ingress-configuration.adoc[Defining a Custom Ingress Configuration].

> == Step 7: Validate Your Runtime Fabric

Reviewer: This is not a step in the task, and it has no substeps of its own.
Suggest "Validation and Deployment Requirements"?

[IMPORTANT]
====
The procedures in this section should be performed by an IT administrator.

> ====

Reviewer: ditto

> After completing the installation, your Runtime Fabric should be activated within your Anypoint organization. To validate your installation, go to Anypoint Runtime Manager and confirm that the status of the Runtime Fabric is `Active`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installation, you as IT Administrator must activate and validate your Runtime Fabric instance within your Anypoint organization by going to Anypoint Runtime Manager and confirming that the status of Runtime Fabric is `Active`.
```

> Before deploying an application to your Runtime Fabric:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After validation and before you deploy an application to your Runtime Fabric instance, you must associate your Runtime Fabric instance with at least...and then review and update, if necessary, your...environment. You can then deploy....
```

. Associate the Runtime Fabric with at least one Anypoint environment.
. Review and update the Inbound Traffic settings based upon your Kubernetes environment.

> . Deploy an application to verify that Runtime Fabric is installed and configured correctly.

Reviewer: See above. Changing from steps, because these are post-requisites to this topic set of INSTALLING.
You might actually make this a ==Next Steps topic, as do Connector docs.

== See Also

* xref:index-self-managed.adoc[Runtime Fabric on Self-Managed Kubernetes]

> * xref:enable-inbound-traffic-self.adoc[Configure Domains and Inbound Traffic (on Self-Managed Kuberenetes)]

Reviewer: fix
